locally identified as the victory
actually the exact name of the wreck of
framura è colosso was launched in
February of the 42 belonged to the class
of greedy and was built near the
river shipyards by order
of the Italian navy
the wreck is located with precision a
about half a mile away from
coast in the stretch between the municipality
of fragura and the town of bonassola
he went to perfect recline
navigation structure on a backdrop of
40 meters with the bow facing west and
the hull parallel to the shoreline
reasons for the foundation are uncertain
there are those who claim because of a bomb
plane
others instead due to the torpedo
of the unit he was towing
sometimes made invisible by
other suspension like today entirely
already visible at least 20 meters from the
surface
we fully exploit the conditions
optimal that the sea binds us to the e
pausing to observe it entirely
a circular structure from bow to stern
attracts our attention is one
antiaircraft station
the base that bears witness to this
He claimed one of the on-board weapons
we reach the deck passed one of the
arms that were used for winging
and save the lifeboat
we head to the bow from this point of
recovery we have a global vision
of the ship the bridge bridges the whole
profile and even the circular turret
similar to that on the quarterdeck
of the test rig
high is straight in front of us dominates
the bow follows perfectly the
technical drawing of the 40s
right above the sea ​​we can
observe a second circular tower
in which took place the
machine gun
below the military post chen salva
it is still in good condition and we succeed in
distinguish it and gears and must
Yup
we head a little along the way
we also overcome the superstructures of the
tug
are those of the control form on
which stands out the presence of portholes in the
corridors all environments easily
recognizable
the fire system of the colossus is
still perfectly recognizable
in fact we distinguish a long line of
water inlets and two large ones
spears the wreck and apparently
intact there are no visible traces
on the cause of the sinking only
this area has collapsed
at the height of the garden they are located
still in their place the lances for
the water also intended to tame the
fire
the stern even if low and round
typical me tugs however gives a
sense of power and vigor
here is the rudder and the large propeller a
four blades
both are oversized for
guarantee power to the tugboat
required for towing
plank meeting we find what remains
of the funnel is the point from which it descended
down to the engine room
on the deck we can still visit
the whole area destined to the government of the
ship let's take a last look at the wreck
of the colossus before starting the
ski